[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I hold a spoon, and
I stroke it very gently.
And I look at it and I say,
bend, melt, bend, melt.
And look, the metal is becoming
almost like plastic plasticine.
No heat is produced.
I say bend, melt, bend.
And look.
And then I went like
that, and the spoon broke.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Where ancient wisdom and
modern research converge,
divine science emerges.
What if psychic
abilities are not
rare anomalies, but clues to an
untapped power within us all?
Could feats like bending
a spoon with the mind
reveal the true potential
of human consciousness?
>> So when we think about what
the best science of the modern
world is now telling us about
our relationship to the field
of energy that underlies all
existence makes perfect sense
that we would have the ability
to interact with that field.
We always have.
We may not have
known the science,
but we certainly
knew the processes
that will facilitate these.
And we call these
psychic abilities.
>> Psychic abilities are when
you can access information that
is outside the five
physical senses.
What I tend to call
it is universal Wi-Fi.
Just like our cell
phones are connected
to Wi-Fi or our computers
and the internet,
it's like we're living in a
big internet, if you will,
where we can get
access to information.
It's incredible.
>> Psychic abilities encompass
a wide range of phenomena.
Some of the most common are
psychokinesis and telekinesis,
the abilities to
influence or move
physical objects with the mind.
Telepathy, the transfer
of thoughts or emotions
between individuals.
Precognition, the
perception of future events.
Presentiment, the sensing of
something before it happens.
And deep intuition, a profound
knowing that guides decisions
without conscious reasoning.
Together, these
abilities reflect
our biological connection
to an energetic field,
with the mind and body
acting as antennas
to access this universal
source of information.
>> So when we talk
about psychic abilities,
we are exploring our biological
relationship in an energetic
field.
We are the technology
we've been waiting for.
We are the transducers.
We are the soft
technology that is
interfacing with
information that lives
in the field, our divinity.
This is where our imagination,
our creativity, our innovation,
our love, our healing, all
originate in that field.
And many psychic
experiences are actually
rooted in what we
call deep intuition.
>> So it's hunches,
gut feelings.
If I'm standing in
front of someone
that I don't they're dangerous.
I can't perceive the
danger with my five senses,
but the hair on
the back of my neck
is standing up, that
would be an intuitive hit.
Something's not right here.
>> Intuition is just on a
spectrum of various psychic
abilities.
And it might be the
most common, what people
might call gut hunches,
or I just know it,
or I just feel that it's true.
It is a type of
psychic ability that
shows up in a particular
way, whether it's
through the body, known
cognitively, or known
through emotions.
>> Psychic abilities are so
prevalent that remote viewing
science tells us that only
10% of people don't have them.
And those are the people
who doubt and deny them.
So what they're saying, and
what I've seen personally,
is that literally
everyone has them.
>> When psychic experiences are
far more common than many might
assume, it challenges us to
rethink what we know about human
potential, suggesting these
phenomena are deeply woven
into the human experience.
This universality raises
intriguing questions
about how these
abilities manifest
and what they might reveal
about our connection
to the unseen forces of reality.
>> I've been studying psychic
phenomena in the laboratory
for about 40 years.
Virtually, any kind
of psychic effect
that is amenable to
being studied in the lab,
I've done that.
Of the different kinds of
studies that I've done,
the one that I think has
produced the strongest effect is
something I call presentiment.
>> Presentiment refers to
the phenomenon where the body
unconsciously responds to a
future event before it occurs,
suggesting a form
of pre-awareness.
It is not a
conscious prediction,
but a subtle
physiological reaction,
such as changes in heart rate,
skin conductance, or brain
activity.
>> And it works like this.
If you connect a measurement
device on somebody's finger,
you can measure the
conductivity of their skin.
And what happens
is when somebody
is startled, shocked or scared
in some way, they will tense up.
And their sweat glands will
start to produce more sweat.
And the conductivity of their
skin increases, and this all
happens in under 1 second.
So what they'll do is they'll
have the human subject sit
i front of the computer.
The computer will
be flashing images
at random, totally unpredictable
which images show up.
And what happens is a
few seconds before being
shown something scary, the skin
conductivity will increase.
What you find is there's
actually a very significant
subconscious involuntary
reaction just prior
to being shown the scary image.
This seems to be a genuine
psi, pre-cognitive effect.
>> The conclusion from the
presentiment experiments is
a confirmation of what we see
in virtually any kind of psychic
experience.
Part of our unconscious mind
is scanning our past, present,
and future all the time.
It's always there.
It's always operating.
The presentiment experiment
says, in particular,
that if we can train ourselves
to have better interoception,
that's the technical
term for paying attention
to your gut and your
heart and your skin
and so on, some people will
feel this as getting a chill.
They get goosebumps.
Other people will feel it
in many different ways.
So if you're driving
along somewhere
and you get this bad
feeling, if you're
really good at interoception,
you will feel it.
You'll feel something
in your gut.
in your heart.
Your body is trying to tell
you that in 5 seconds from now,
there's going to be an uh-oh.
That's the message
that we get from this
and many other experiments.
That level of awareness
is always there.
>> It turns out that it's
not just humans either.
There was a study
by Alvarez, who
showed that finches, when
being shown images at random,
would start to
become agitated prior
to being shown an
image of a snake, which
is their natural predator.
So this ability seems
to be generalized across
not just humans, but
animals and insects, perhaps
even life itself.
>> The ability to sense events
beyond immediate perception
challenges our understanding
of time and causality.
Could the key to these
extraordinary connections
lie within our very biology?
>> In the late 2000s, scientists
made a series of discoveries
that give deep insight into why
psychic abilities, number one,
why they're possible,
number two, why they happen,
number three, how we can maybe
develop them to even deeper
levels.
One of those discoveries
was that DNA literally
function as antennae.
Not just any kind of antenna,
but what are called fractal
antennae.
And what that means
is that they're
receiving multiple
bandwidths of information
across a broad spectrum all at
the same time simultaneously.
DNA, from an
engineering perspective,
is a fractal antenna.
Now, here's where this comes
into the psychic abilities.
Another series of studies
in the biological world
showed that when a woman
conceives a life in her womb,
the DNA of the baby circulates
in the mother's blood and lodges
in organs in her body.
And her DNA is circulating in
her baby's blood and lodges
in specific organs
in her baby's body.
There's resonant
information being
transmitted between the living
offspring and their mother.
So it's no surprise that when
the offspring is in trouble,
whether it's a five-year-old
baby falling off of a slide
or a swing in the backyard, or
a 23-year old son hit by an IED
in Afghanistan, that the
mother is going to know,
to sense that
something is wrong.
And this helps us understand
what psychic abilities are all
about.
The information is being
transferred between two living
beings.
It has to have a
medium to flow through.
It's flowing through the field.
We all have this all the time.
The question is, do
we trust ourselves
enough to accept the information
that we're receiving?
Or do we discount
that information.
>> There is a fascinating
phenomenon called telesomatic
phenomenon, where pairs
of people actually feel
the physical sensations
of the other pair.
Take twins, for example.
There have been numerous
anecdotes where one twin has
been injured in some way
or in a car accident,
and the other twin
knows it immediately,
exactly when it happens.
There have been anecdotes of one
twin or one bonded pair going
into labor and the
other person being like,
OK, they're in labor because
I'm feeling labor pains.
There are numerous,
numerous anecdotes.
And we're collecting
all of these
so that we can be able to
do formal analysis of them
and see what their
commonalities are.
>> In 2017, Dr. Dean Radin
conducted a groundbreaking study
exploring the influence of
focused mental intention
on quantum systems Among the
participants was Brandy Gilmore,
whose experience in this
experiment revealed fascinating
insights into the potential
interplay between consciousness
and the physical world.
>> Like, I was
locked in this room.
And in another room
there was a photon beam
with photon splitters and then
a photon counter at the end.
And basically what happened
is in this vault closet,
if you will, this little voice
would come on and say, go.
And basically,
what you do is want
to use your mind
to then influence
the photons in the photon beam.
And so then it would stop.
And then it would go.
And then it would stop.
And basically, you could tell
when you're using your mind
and when you're not
using your mind,
you can see the fluctuations
in the photon beam and photon
counter and all of that.
>> Things are correlated, but
we don't know exactly why.
And that is the case
in entanglement.
Things are connected
through space and time.
Well, how does that work?
Well, we don't exactly know.
We have equations that
will describe how it works.
But at a real
fundamental level, we
don't know how that's possible.
>> Emerging research into
psi and genetics suggests
a fascinating link, pointing to
a specific region of the genome
that may hold clues to the
innate psychic potential present
in all of us.
>> We completed a study looking
at the genetics of psychic
ability, and actually looked
at high-functioning psychics,
compared to age, gender,
and race-matched controls.
And we found a fascinating
preliminary finding
on chromosome 7 on
a non-coding region
that's called TNRC7 And what
was fascinating about this part
of the genome was
that the psychics had
the original or wild type form,
and the controls had a mutation,
meaning that it
mutated towards not
expressing the psychic ability.
This was so intriguing to us.
We went and looked
at genomic databases
that had thousands and
thousands of people
and found that this wild
type original version was
present in over
90% of the people
in that data set, which really
supports this idea that we all
have this innate
ability to be psychic.
>> This discovery raises
an intriguing question.
What could have led
to a mutation away
from psychic ability?
>> So we did an analysis,
comparing the genomes in more
technologically-advanced
countries versus less advanced.
And we found increased mutations
in the technologically-advanced
countries that was significant,
which supported our hypothesis.
>> This finding raises
compelling questions about how
environmental and technological
factors might influence
the expression of
psychic abilities.
Interestingly, when individuals
experience a psychic insight,
measurable changes
occur in the brain,
offering a glimpse into the
interplay between mind, biology,
and intuition.
>> The most interesting and
wonderful thing about a psychic
insight is that it
powers up the brain.
You will see an increase
in the amplitude
of the brainwave categories.
Sometimes you can
see somebody's gamma,
and then the gamma
goes up like this.
And it can double, triple,
quadruple in amplitude
as the brain lights
up and becomes
more lucid, awake and aware,
which creates a coherence.
That moment of insight is
just an absolute joy to watch.
And it's definitely
quantifiable.
You can look at the data
and see a huge change
in the brainwave pattern.
>> One technology designed to
explore and optimize brainwave
activity is the mind mirror,
a sophisticated neurofeedback
device.
It monitors brainwave
frequencies,
including delta
waves, 0.5 to 4 Hertz,
dominant during deep restorative
sleep, theta waves, 4 to 8
Hertz, linked to
creativity, intuition,
and deep relaxation,
alpha waves, 8 to 14,
associated with calm focus and
meditative states, beta waves 14
to 30 Hertz, connected to
alertness, concentration,
and problem solving, and
gamma waves, 30 to 100
Hertz, which are linked to
peak cognitive performance
and heightened perception.
The mind mirror provides
valuable insights
into the relationship between
consciousness and brain
activity.
>> On the mind mirror, we
are looking at two different
measurements.
So the frequency is the
speed of the thought.
And the amplitude is the
power of the thought.
So by looking at
the two together,
the speed of the
electrical signal,
the power of the electrical
signal, what we're actually
looking at is the
activities of consciousness.
If someone, for example, gets
really busy with their beta
and it splays outward into
high frequency stress, anxiety,
and panic, then we see
the alpha bridge collapse.
Or you can have a huge
amplitude decrease in healers
like psychics and healers.
They'll have a massive, massive
delta down at the bottom.
So it's really less about what
amplitude they start with,
as it is the changes that
occur during the session
as they access energy
and information.
>> Research further suggests
that focused mental intention
can create measurable changes
in a recipient's body,
influencing brainwaves,
heart activity,
and other physiological markers.
These experiments aim to uncover
whether a connection exists
that transcends physical space.
>> I think some of the most
compelling physiological
evidence around psychic
abilities is with the Distant
Mental Intention of
Living Systems protocol,
which essentially took pairs
of people and separated them
into completely different
parts of the building,
and then hooked both of them
up to physiological recording
devices.
Whether it was EEG,
looking at brainwaves,
or EKG heart waves,
what was happening
on the skin or other
parts of the body,
and then they would have one
person direct their intention
towards the other.
And during those periods
of directed intention,
the receiver's
physiology would change,
compared to times when
the other person wasn't
directing their intention.
So these people are
separated completely.
And yet, the receiver's body
is changing when someone else
is directing intention to it.
That's incredible.
>> The measurable physiological
changes seen in studies
of distant intention point
to an intriguing question.
How are such connections
possible across physical space?
Some researchers
suggest that the answer
lies in quantum
principles, where
the concept of
non-locality challenges
our traditional understanding
of time and space.
>> Let me share a little bit
about what entanglement means.
There was an experiment that was
done back in the 1990s called
the Twin Photon Experiment,
where Swiss engineers,
they took one photon,
a particle of light,
and they broke it in half.
So they were two
identical photons
came from the same original.
And they put them into a special
device with fiber optic cables.
And one device shot
one photon seven miles
in one direction
and the other one
seven miles in the
other direction.
Now they're 14 miles apart,
and the experiment begins.
Everything they did to
one of these photons,
the other one acted like
it had the same experience.
And the question was,
how did that happen?
How did this photon
tell this photon
that it had just been
forced a certain direction
or have a certain polarity?
The answer is it
didn't have to tell.
Because even though they
were physically separated
energetically, they were
still connected because they
had been part of
the same photon.
This goes back to the
very beginning of what
physicists call the Big Bang.
Fractions of a second, all
of the matter in the universe
was collapsed into a space
about the size of a green pea.
Everything was connected.
As the expansion continued
and the physical matter
separated energetically,
it remained connected.
We are products of
that physical matter.
We are atoms that were formed
in that original primal release
of energy.
This is why we are
connected with one another.
This is why ESP works.
Because energetically, we
are still part of that field.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the physicalist paradigm,
our consciousness is anchored
in our physical brain.
In fact, our neurons
create our consciousness.
In a non-physicalist
paradigm, our consciousness
is not an artifact
of the brain and goes
beyond our physical brain.
It's, in fact,
non-local, that expands
beyond our conventional
notions of time and space.
It transcends them.
>> The idea that consciousness
transcends the physical brain
challenges our
understanding of reality.
Could the bending of a
spoon, known as telekinesis,
reveal an extraordinary
connection
between mind and matter?
Some believe quantum
principles, like non-locality
and the observer
effect, may hold the key
to unlocking this mystery.
>> So when I manipulate a
spoon, when I stroke it gently,
when I command it to bend or
break or melt or grow or move,
I produce an energy wave.
I don't believe it comes
out from my finger.
I believe it comes
out from my mind,
and it penetrates the molecular
structure of the metal.
Maybe I'm deriving,
or I'm extracting
some kind of a power, some
kind of a universal energy
from outside me.
Maybe it has nothing
to do with my mind.
Maybe there is some kind of
an intelligence above me,
a super force, a thinking entity
that does this thing through me.
>> Uri Geller, or anyone else
who's good at bending spoons,
what they're having to do
is dissolve their awareness
of themselves as a separate
entity having a specific action
on a separate object.
They are saying, this
is all one field.
We are nothing but energy.
I'm going to vibrate at
the energy of the spoon,
or the spoon is going to vibrate
at my energetic frequency.
But there's a union.
There has to be a union
between the person
in the field, the
field in the spoon,
to know that it's only one
field, only one energy.
So in the movie The Matrix,
they would probably say,
you have to realize
that there is no spoon.
And there is some
reality to that.
Because ultimately, the world
that we perceive, again,
through the limitations
of the body,
makes us believe that
there is a solid form.
So what a psychic
would have to do
is actually overcome
this limitation
and realize that there
is a living nature
inside of the spoon that
determines its appearance,
and the actual setup
of its particles.
>> When I do spoon bending, I
like to describe the science
behind it.
So you first, what I like
to say is you heat it up.
You can sense the
particles inside of it.
And heating up particles,
heating up electrons and stuff,
so it'll get
everything activated.
But then there's the
spiritual side of it.
You're able to connect to that.
You're able to feel when this
material was still liquid,
when it was molten,
and when it was being
poured into what it is now.
You could still go back in
time and talk to that material.
You could go back in time to
ask, how do you want to be bent.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So in the brainwave
pattern of a spoon bender,
you will initially see an
advanced brainwave pattern.
And then when they
start to bend the spoon,
it seems to me so far, that
one of two things happens.
Either they extend
their delta way,
way out into
hyper-micro voltages,
because their unconscious mind
is moving out into the field
to connect with
the quantum field,
and they're getting
the spoon bending power
from making that connection.
Or conversely, at the
other end of the spectrum,
they are increasing the
power of their gamma,
powering up the brain.
The brain is running
faster, much faster
at the moment they
bend the spoon.
>> So you have an enormous
amount of infinite energy.
And now you have
non-localized consciousness
that is interplaying
with each other.
That means consciousness is
determining every type of form,
every type of functionality.
And accessing that and
training how to access that
gives you a limitless amount
of colors for your own reality
to create with.
>> The psychokinesis is
evidence, in my mind,
that consciousness
is all there is,
and that matter is
actually consciousness.
>> If consciousness is the
essence of all reality,
psychic abilities
may be universal,
woven into the fabric
of human existence.
Yet some people appear
more naturally gifted,
raising questions about
what shapes such abilities.
>> Are people born more gifted
psychically than others?
Yes.
And I think about it like
someone who plays the piano.
We can all play the piano.
Every one of us can
develop psychic abilities.
But some of us
are going to do it
at a different
level than others.
Some are going to be
on a concert stage,
some are going to be
playing chopsticks.
And that'll be the
height of their ability.
>> So one of the reasons why we
don't experience these things
more often is because of a
societal stigma or a taboo that
prevents people from openly
talking about their experiences.
That's a pity.
Because it also restricts
what we can learn about them.
So science has been
studying these kinds
of effects for about 140
years in laboratory studies.
We know now with very high
confidence that some of what
I would say,
elementary experiences
that people have are real.
It's like shockingly clear,
that the moment you step outside
of a limited set of
assumptions, all those things
that you used to call crazy
or delusional or whatever,
they're fraudulent, no,
they not only can be real,
they must be real
at these larger
ways of thinking about reality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's a spiritual
divine quality to human life,
to all life.
And I think you can see that in
the realms of psychic research,
and that it represents--
it really represents
a way forward for us.
Because it represents
our own expansion.
It represents us getting
bigger, getting deeper,
life becoming more meaningful.
>> We have to learn to think
from the innermost level,
which is the source of all
that there is on the surface.
We use the ocean analogy.
We have to go to the
bottom of the ocean.
Or we use, in physics,
the unified field analogy.
So we have to go to the
unified field, which
is the source of all that
is manifest in the universe.
And from there, we
can achieve anything.
>> No doubt, consciousness,
super consciousness exists.
And to our viewers right now,
everything is possible in life.
Remember that there is nothing
that you cannot be, do, or have,
because your mind power can
materialize things for you.
Your mind ability, your
super consciousness
can do things for you.
If you think positive, you're
sending that message out
to that universe, and it
brings it back to you.
>> Psychic abilities may not
be extraordinary exceptions,
but an intrinsic part
of the human experience.
Could they represent
a fundamental aspect
of who we are, waiting for us
to unlock their full potential?
Join us for more episodes
on Divine Science,
where we continue exploring the
crossroads of modern research
and ancient wisdom.